docs/course/10.md, before:

---
prev: ./9.md
---

## 10. Additional Resources

### 10.1 Security Guidance

[https://public.cyber.mil/stigs/downloads/](https://public.cyber.mil/stigs/downloads/)  
[https://www.cisecurity.org/cis-benchmarks/](https://www.cisecurity.org/cis-benchmarks/)

### 10.2 InSpec Documentation

[InSpec Docs](https://www.inspec.io/docs/)  
[InSpec Profiles](https://www.inspec.io/docs/reference/profiles/)  
[InSpec Resources](https://www.inspec.io/docs/reference/resources/)  
[InSpec Matchers](https://www.inspec.io/docs/reference/matchers/)  
[InSpec Shell](https://www.inspec.io/docs/reference/shell/)  
[InSpec Reporters](https://www.inspec.io/docs/reference/reporters/)  
[InSpec Profile Inheritance](https://blog.chef.io/2017/07/06/understanding-inspec-profile-inheritance/)

### 10.3 Additional Tutorials

[Introduction to InSpec Playlist](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLSZbtIlMt5rcbXOpMRucKzRMXR7HX7awy)
[What to Expect When You’re InSpec’ing](https://blog.chef.io/2018/04/03/what-to-expect-when-youre-inspecing/)  
[Getting started with InSpec - The InSpec basics series](http://www.anniehedgie.com/inspec/)  
[Windows infrastructure testing using InSpec – Part I](http://datatomix.com/?p=236)  
[Windows infrastructure testing using InSpec and Profiles – Part II](http://datatomix.com/?p=238)

### 10.4 MITRE InSpec

[MITRE InSpec Repositories](https://github.com/mitre?q=inspec)  
[InSpec Tools](https://github.com/mitre/inspec_tools)  
[Heimdall Lite](https://mitre.github.io/heimdall-lite/#)

### 10.5. rspec documentation

[Explicit Subject](https://relishapp.com/rspec/rspec-core/docs/subject/explicit-subject)  
[should and should_not](https://github.com/rspec/rspec-expectations/blob/master/Should.md)  
[Built in matchers](https://relishapp.com/rspec/rspec-expectations/docs/built-in-matchers)

### 10.6. Slack

[Chef Slack](http://community-slack.chef.io/)

Commit message:

Adding MITRE and community links

docs/course/10.md, after:

---
prev: ./9.md
---

## 10. Additional Resources

### 10.1 Security Guidance

[https://iase.disa.mil/stigs/Pages/a-z.aspx](https://public.cyber.mil/stigs/downloads/)  
[https://www.cisecurity.org/cis-benchmarks/](https://www.cisecurity.org/cis-benchmarks/)

### 10.2 InSpec Documentation  

[InSpec Docs](https://www.inspec.io/docs/)  
[InSpec Profiles](https://www.inspec.io/docs/reference/profiles/)  
[InSpec Resources](https://www.inspec.io/docs/reference/resources/)  
[InSpec Matchers](https://www.inspec.io/docs/reference/matchers/)  
[InSpec Shell](https://www.inspec.io/docs/reference/shell/)  
[InSpec Reporters](https://www.inspec.io/docs/reference/reporters/)  
[InSpec Profile Inheritance](https://blog.chef.io/2017/07/06/understanding-inspec-profile-inheritance/)

### 10.3 Additional Tutorials  

[Introduction to InSpec Playlist](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLSZbtIlMt5rcbXOpMRucKzRMXR7HX7awy)
[What to Expect When You’re InSpec’ing](https://blog.chef.io/2018/04/03/what-to-expect-when-youre-inspecing/)  
[Getting started with InSpec - The InSpec basics series](http://www.anniehedgie.com/inspec/)  
[Windows infrastructure testing using InSpec – Part I](http://datatomix.com/?p=236)  
[Windows infrastructure testing using InSpec and Profiles – Part II](http://datatomix.com/?p=238)

### 10.4 Community-based InSpec Profiles and Heimdall Results-Viewing tools hosted at MITRE's Github 

- [MITRE InSpec Profile Repositories](https://github.com/mitre?q=inspec+baseline+profile)  
- [InSpec Tools](https://github.com/mitre/inspec_tools)  
- [Heimdall Lite](https://mitre.github.io/heimdall-lite/#)  
- [Heimdall Lite Github Repo](https://github.com/mitre/heimdall-lite)  
- [Heimdall Server (with backend database, compare and trending)](https://github.com/mitre/heimdall)  
- [Heimdall Tools to convert output from common static and dynamic security analysis tools (e.g., sonarqube, OWASP ZAP, fortify, etc.) into the Heimdall Data Format json for viewing in Heimdall](https://github.com/mitre/heimdall_tools)  

### 10.5. InSpec Community Partners  
Many vendors and communities of interested have partnered with MITRE to develop security testing content. They have released this content on Github following in MITRE's footsteps.  
#### 10.5.1 CrunchyData
- https://github.com/CrunchyData/pgstigcheck-inspec
#### 10.5.2 Elastic
- https://github.com/elastic/elasticsearch-inspec
#### 10.5.3 AWS
- https://github.com/inspec/inspec-aws
#### 10.5.4 VMWare
- https://github.com/kclinden/vmware-vrealize-automation-7-x-sles-stig-baseline
- https://github.com/kclinden/vmware-esxi-6.5-stig-baseline

### 10.6. rspec documentation

[Explicit Subject](https://relishapp.com/rspec/rspec-core/docs/subject/explicit-subject)  
[should and should_not](https://github.com/rspec/rspec-expectations/blob/master/Should.md)  
[Built in matchers](https://relishapp.com/rspec/rspec-expectations/docs/built-in-matchers)

### 10.7. Slack

[Chef Slack](http://community-slack.chef.io/)
