docs/course/5.md, before:

---
prev: ./4.md
next: ./6.md
---

## 5. Writting the InSpec Controls

Now that you understand which methods map to each requirement, you're ready to write InSpec controls.

To review, recall that you require:

---
1. NGINX version 1.10.3 or later.
2. The following NGINX modules to be installed:
  - `http_ssl`
  - `stream_ssl`
  - `mail_ssl`
3. The NGINX configuration file, `/etc/nginx/nginx.conf`, to:
- be owned by the `root` user and group.
- not be readable, writeable, or executable by others.
---

#### Requirement 1 - NGINX Version
The first requirement is for the NGINX version to be 1.10.3 or later. To check this, you use the `cmp` matcher. Replace the contents of `/root/my_nginx/controls/example.rb` with this.

```ruby
control 'nginx-version' do
  impact 1.0
  title 'NGINX version'
  desc 'The required version of NGINX should be installed.'
  describe nginx do
    its('version') { should cmp >= '1.10.3' }
  end
end
```

:::tip The `nginx_conf` resource docs
[`nginx_conf`](https://www.inspec.io/docs/reference/resources/nginx_conf/)
:::

The test has an impact of 1.0, meaning it is most critical. A failure might indicate to the team that this issue should be resolved as soon as possible, likely by upgrading NGINX to a newer version. The test compares `nginx.version` against version 1.10.3.

`cmp` is one of InSpec's [built-in matchers](https://www.inspec.io/docs/reference/matchers/). `cmp` understands version numbers and can use the operators ==, <, <=, >=, and >. `cmp` compares versions by each segment, not as a string. For example, "7.4" is less than than "7.30".

Next, run `inspec exec` to execute the profile on the remote target.

```sh
inspec exec /root/my_nginx -t docker://DOCKER_CONTAINER_ID
```

This will ouput:

```sh
  Profile: InSpec Profile (my_nginx)
  Version: 0.1.0
  Target:  docker://DOCKER_CONTAINER_ID

    ✔  nginx-version: NGINX version
       ✔  Nginx Environment version should cmp >= "1.10.3"


  Profile Summary: 1 successful control, 0 control failures, 0 controls skipped
  Test Summary: 1 successful, 0 failures, 0 skipped
```

You see that the test passes.

#### Requirement Two - NGINX Modules are Installed

The second requirement verifies that these modules are installed.

- http_ssl
- stream_ssl
- mail_ssl

Modify your control file like this.

```ruby
control 'nginx-modules' do
  impact 1.0
  title 'NGINX modules'
  desc 'The required NGINX modules should be installed.'
  describe nginx do
    its('modules') { should include 'http_ssl' }
    its('modules') { should include 'stream_ssl' }
    its('modules') { should include 'mail_ssl' }
  end
end
```

:::tip The `nginx_conf` resource docs
[`nginx_conf`](https://www.inspec.io/docs/reference/resources/nginx_conf/)
:::

The second control resembles the first; however, this version uses multiple `its` statements and the `nginx.modules` method. The `nginx.modules` method returns a list; the built-in `include` matcher verifies whether a value belongs to a given list.

Run `inspec exec` on the target.

```sh
$ inspec exec /root/my_nginx -t docker://DOCKER_CONTAINER_ID
```
Which again, will output:

```sh

  Profile: InSpec Profile (my_nginx)
  Version: 0.1.0
  Target:  docker://DOCKER_CONTAINER_ID

    ✔  nginx-version: NGINX version
       ✔  Nginx Environment version should cmp >= "1.10.3"
    ✔  nginx-modules: NGINX version
       ✔  Nginx Environment modules should include "http_ssl"
       ✔  Nginx Environment modules should include "stream_ssl"
       ✔  Nginx Environment modules should include "mail_ssl"


  Profile Summary: 2 successful controls, 0 control failures, 0 controls skipped
  Test Summary: 4 successful, 0 failures, 0 skipped
```

This time, both controls pass.

#### Requirement Three - Permission on the `nginx_conf` file

The third requirement verifies that the NGINX configuration file, `/etc/nginx/nginx.conf`:

- is owned by the root user and group.
- is not be readable, writeable, or executable by others.

Modify your control file like this.

```ruby
control 'nginx-conf' do
  impact 1.0
  title 'NGINX configuration'
  desc 'The NGINX config file should owned by root, be writable only by owner, and not writeable or and readable by others.'
  describe file('/etc/nginx/nginx.conf') do
    it { should be_owned_by 'root' }
    it { should be_grouped_into 'root' }
    it { should_not be_readable.by('others') }
    it { should_not be_writable.by('others') }
    it { should_not be_executable.by('others') }
  end
end
```

:::tip The `file` resource docs
[`file`](https://www.inspec.io/docs/reference/resources/file/)
:::

The third control uses the `file` resource. The first 2 tests use `should` to verify the `root` owner and group. The last 3 tests use `should_not` to verify that the file is not readable, writable, or executable by others.

Run `inspec exec` on the target.

```sh
$ inspec exec /root/my_nginx -t docker://DOCKER_CONTAINER_ID
```

Again, outputting:

```sh
  Profile: InSpec Profile (my_nginx)
  Version: 0.1.0
  Target:  docker://DOCKER_CONTAINER_ID

    ...
    ×  nginx-conf: NGINX configuration (1 failed)
       ✔  File /etc/nginx/nginx.conf should be owned by "root"
       ✔  File /etc/nginx/nginx.conf should be grouped into "root"
       ×  File /etc/nginx/nginx.conf should not be readable by others
       expected File /etc/nginx/nginx.conf not to be readable by others
       ✔  File /etc/nginx/nginx.conf should not be writable by others
       ✔  File /etc/nginx/nginx.conf should not be executable by others


  Profile Summary: 2 successful controls, 1 control failure, 0 controls skipped
  Test Summary: 8 successful, 1 failure, 0 skipped
```

This time you see a failure. You discover that `/etc/nginx/nginx.conf` is potentially readable by others. Because this control also has an impact of 1.0, your team may need to investigate further.

Remember, the first step, detect, is where you identify where the problems are so that you can accurately assess risk and prioritize remediation actions. 

For the second step, correct, you can use a configuration management tool or some other automation framework to correct compliance failures for you. 

You won't correct this issue in this module, but later you can check out the [Integrated Compliance with Chef](https://learn.chef.io/tracks/integrated-compliance#/) track to learn more about how to correct compliance issues using Chef.

### 5.1. Refactoring the code to use Inputs

Your `my_nginx` profile is off to a great start. As your requirements evolve, you can add additional controls. You can also run this profile as often as you need to verify whether your systems remain in compliance.

Let's review the control file, `example.rb`.

```ruby
control 'nginx-version' do
  impact 1.0
  title 'NGINX version'
  desc 'The required version of NGINX should be installed.'
  describe nginx do
    its('version') { should cmp >= '1.10.3' }
  end
end

control 'nginx-modules' do
  impact 1.0
  title 'NGINX modules'
  desc 'The required NGINX modules should be installed.'
  describe nginx do
    its('modules') { should include 'http_ssl' }
    its('modules') { should include 'stream_ssl' }
    its('modules') { should include 'mail_ssl' }
  end
end

control 'nginx-conf' do
  impact 1.0
  title 'NGINX configuration'
  desc 'The NGINX config file should owned by root, be writable only by owner, and not writeable or and readable by others.'
  describe file('/etc/nginx/nginx.conf') do
    it { should be_owned_by 'root' }
    it { should be_grouped_into 'root' }
    it { should_not be_readable.by('others') }
    it { should_not be_writable.by('others') }
    it { should_not be_executable.by('others') }
  end
end
```

:::tip The `nginx_conf` resource docs
[`nginx_conf`](https://www.inspec.io/docs/reference/resources/nginx_conf/)
:::

Although these rules do what you expect, imagine your control file contains dozens or hundreds of tests. As the data you check for, such as the version or which modules are installed, evolve, it can become tedious to locate and update your tests. You may also find that you repeat the same data in across multiple control files.

One way to improve these tests is to use `inputs`. `Inputs` enable you to separate the `logic of your tests` from `the data your tests`. `Input files` are typically expressed as a `YAML` file.

`Profile Inputs` exist in your profile's main directory within the `inspec.yml` for global `inputs` to be used across all the controls in your profile.

Let's create the `inspec.yml` file for our profile:

```yaml
name: my_nginx
title: InSpec Profile
maintainer: The Authors
copyright: The Authors
copyright_email: you@example.com
license: Apache-2.0
summary: An InSpec Compliance Profile
version: 0.1.0
supports:
  platform: os

inputs:
  - name: nginx_version
    type: string
    value: 1.10.3
```

To access an input you will use the input keyword. You can use this anywhere in your control code.

For example:

```ruby
control 'nginx-version' do
  impact 1.0
  title 'NGINX version'
  desc 'The required version of NGINX should be installed.'
  describe nginx do
    its('version') { should cmp >= input('nginx_version') }
  end
end
```

For our next control we require specific modules

Example of adding an array object of servers:

```YAML
inputs:
  - name: servers
    type: array
    value:
      - server1
      - server2
      - server3
```

Similarly as the above example we can edit our `inspec.yml` file like this:

```YAML
name: my_nginx
title: InSpec Profile
maintainer: The Authors
copyright: The Authors
copyright_email: you@example.com
license: Apache-2.0
summary: An InSpec Compliance Profile
version: 0.1.0
supports:
  platform: os

inputs:
  - name: nginx_version
    type: string
    value: 1.10.3

  - name: nginx_modules
    type: array
    value:
      - http_ssl
      - stream_ssl
      - mail_ssl
```

Your control can be changed to look like this:

```ruby
control 'nginx-modules' do
  impact 1.0
  title 'NGINX modules'
  desc 'The required NGINX modules should be installed.'
  
  describe nginx do
    input('nginx_modules').each do |current_module|
      its('modules') { should include current_module }
    end
  end
end
```

### 5.2. Multiple Inputs Example

To change your inputs for platform specific cases you can setup multiple input files.

For example, a inspec.yml:

```YAML
inputs:
  - name: users
    type: array
    required: true
```

A YAML file named windows.yml

```YAML
users:
  - Administrator
  - Guest
  - Randy
```

A YAML file named linux.yml

```YAML
users:
  - root
  - shadow
  - rmadison
```

The control file:

```Ruby
control 'system-users' do
  impact 0.8
  desc 'Confirm the proper users are created on the system'

  describe users do
    its('usernames') { should eq input('users') }
  end
end
```

The following command runs the tests and applies the inputs specified:

```sh
inspec exec examples/profile-input --input-file examples/windows.yml
```
```sh
inspec exec examples/profile-input --input-file examples/linux.yml
```

### 5.3. Running the baseline straight from Github

In this module, we use NGINX for learning purposes. If you're interested in NGINX specifically, you may be interested in the [MITRE nginx-srg-baseline](https://github.com/mitre/nginx-srg-baseline) profile on GitHub.

To execute the GitHub profile on your target system, run this `inspec exec` command.

```sh 
inspec exec https://github.com/mitre/nginx-baseline -t docker://DOCKER_CONTAINER_ID
```

Commit message:

fixed a few small issues in section  4 and 5
- ensured that the requirements definition was the same
- ensured the directions were clear as we added each controls

Signed-off-by: Aaron Lippold <lippold@gmail.com>

docs/course/5.md, after:

---
prev: ./4.md
next: ./6.md
---

## 5. Writting the InSpec Controls

Now that you understand which methods map to each requirement, you're ready to write InSpec controls.

#### Security / Configuration Requirements for our NGINX instance

Recall from [Section 4](./4.md) that we want to verify that our NGINX instance had been configured to meet the following requirements:

```sh
1. NGINX version 1.10.3 or later.
2. the following NGINX modules should be installed:
   * `http_ssl`
   * `stream_ssl`
   * `mail_ssl`
3. the NGINX configuration file - `/etc/nginx/nginx.conf`- should:
   * be owned by the `root` user and group.
   * not be readable, writeable, or executable by others.

```

#### Requirement 1 - NGINX Version
The first requirement is for the NGINX version to be `1.10.3 or later`. 

We can check this using the InSpec `cmp` matcher.

 Replace the contents of `my_nginx/controls/example.rb` with this:

```ruby
control 'nginx-version' do
  impact 1.0
  title 'NGINX version'
  desc 'The required version of NGINX should be installed.'
  describe nginx do
    its('version') { should cmp >= '1.10.3' }
  end
end
```

:::tip The `nginx_conf` resource docs
[`nginx_conf`](https://www.inspec.io/docs/reference/resources/nginx_conf/)
:::

The test has an impact of 1.0, meaning it is most critical. A failure might indicate to the team that this issue should be resolved as soon as possible, likely by upgrading NGINX to a newer version. The test compares `nginx.version` against version 1.10.3.

`cmp` is one of InSpec's [built-in matchers](https://www.inspec.io/docs/reference/matchers/). `cmp` understands version numbers and can use the operators ==, <, <=, >=, and >. `cmp` compares versions by each segment, not as a string. For example, "7.4" is less than than "7.30".

Next, run `inspec exec` to execute the profile on the remote target.

```sh
inspec exec /root/my_nginx -t docker://DOCKER_CONTAINER_ID
```

This will ouput:

```sh
  Profile: InSpec Profile (my_nginx)
  Version: 0.1.0
  Target:  docker://DOCKER_CONTAINER_ID

    ✔  nginx-version: NGINX version
       ✔  Nginx Environment version should cmp >= "1.10.3"


  Profile Summary: 1 successful control, 0 control failures, 0 controls skipped
  Test Summary: 1 successful, 0 failures, 0 skipped
```

You see that the test passes.

#### Requirement Two - NGINX Modules are Installed

The second requirement verifies that our required modules are installed.

- http_ssl
- stream_ssl
- mail_ssl

Append your control file to add this describe block:

```ruby
control 'nginx-modules' do
  impact 1.0
  title 'NGINX modules'
  desc 'The required NGINX modules should be installed.'
  describe nginx do
    its('modules') { should include 'http_ssl' }
    its('modules') { should include 'stream_ssl' }
    its('modules') { should include 'mail_ssl' }
  end
end
```

:::tip The `nginx_conf` resource docs
[`nginx_conf`](https://www.inspec.io/docs/reference/resources/nginx_conf/)
:::

The second control resembles the first; however, this version uses multiple `its` statements and the `nginx.modules` method. The `nginx.modules` method returns a list; the built-in `include` matcher verifies whether a value belongs to a given list.

Run `inspec exec` on the target.

```sh
$ inspec exec /root/my_nginx -t docker://DOCKER_CONTAINER_ID
```
Which again, will output:

```sh

  Profile: InSpec Profile (my_nginx)
  Version: 0.1.0
  Target:  docker://DOCKER_CONTAINER_ID

    ✔  nginx-version: NGINX version
       ✔  Nginx Environment version should cmp >= "1.10.3"
    ✔  nginx-modules: NGINX version
       ✔  Nginx Environment modules should include "http_ssl"
       ✔  Nginx Environment modules should include "stream_ssl"
       ✔  Nginx Environment modules should include "mail_ssl"


  Profile Summary: 2 successful controls, 0 control failures, 0 controls skipped
  Test Summary: 4 successful, 0 failures, 0 skipped
```

This time, both controls pass.

#### Requirement Three - Permission on the `nginx_conf` file

The third requirement verifies that the NGINX configuration file, `/etc/nginx/nginx.conf`:

- is owned by the root user and group.
- is not be readable, writeable, or executable by others.

Append your control file to add this describe block:

```ruby
control 'nginx-conf' do
  impact 1.0
  title 'NGINX configuration'
  desc 'The NGINX config file should owned by root, be writable only by owner, and not writeable or and readable by others.'
  describe file('/etc/nginx/nginx.conf') do
    it { should be_owned_by 'root' }
    it { should be_grouped_into 'root' }
    it { should_not be_readable.by('others') }
    it { should_not be_writable.by('others') }
    it { should_not be_executable.by('others') }
  end
end
```

:::tip The `file` resource docs
[`file`](https://www.inspec.io/docs/reference/resources/file/)
:::

The third control uses the `file` resource. The first 2 tests use `should` to verify the `root` owner and group. The last 3 tests use `should_not` to verify that the file is not readable, writable, or executable by others.

Run `inspec exec` on the target.

```sh
$ inspec exec /root/my_nginx -t docker://DOCKER_CONTAINER_ID
```

Again, outputting:

```sh
  Profile: InSpec Profile (my_nginx)
  Version: 0.1.0
  Target:  docker://DOCKER_CONTAINER_ID

    ...
    ×  nginx-conf: NGINX configuration (1 failed)
       ✔  File /etc/nginx/nginx.conf should be owned by "root"
       ✔  File /etc/nginx/nginx.conf should be grouped into "root"
       ×  File /etc/nginx/nginx.conf should not be readable by others
       expected File /etc/nginx/nginx.conf not to be readable by others
       ✔  File /etc/nginx/nginx.conf should not be writable by others
       ✔  File /etc/nginx/nginx.conf should not be executable by others


  Profile Summary: 2 successful controls, 1 control failure, 0 controls skipped
  Test Summary: 8 successful, 1 failure, 0 skipped
```

This time you see a failure. You discover that `/etc/nginx/nginx.conf` is potentially readable by others. Because this control also has an impact of 1.0, your team may need to investigate further.

Remember, the first step, detect, is where you identify where the problems are so that you can accurately assess risk and prioritize remediation actions. 

For the second step, correct, you can use a configuration management tool or some other automation framework to correct compliance failures for you. 

You won't correct this issue in this module, but later you can check out the [Integrated Compliance with Chef](https://learn.chef.io/tracks/integrated-compliance#/) track to learn more about how to correct compliance issues using Chef.

### 5.1. Refactoring the code to use Inputs

Your `my_nginx` profile is off to a great start. As your requirements evolve, you can add additional controls. You can also run this profile as often as you need to verify whether your systems remain in compliance.

Let's review the control file, `example.rb`.

```ruby
control 'nginx-version' do
  impact 1.0
  title 'NGINX version'
  desc 'The required version of NGINX should be installed.'
  describe nginx do
    its('version') { should cmp >= '1.10.3' }
  end
end

control 'nginx-modules' do
  impact 1.0
  title 'NGINX modules'
  desc 'The required NGINX modules should be installed.'
  describe nginx do
    its('modules') { should include 'http_ssl' }
    its('modules') { should include 'stream_ssl' }
    its('modules') { should include 'mail_ssl' }
  end
end

control 'nginx-conf' do
  impact 1.0
  title 'NGINX configuration'
  desc 'The NGINX config file should owned by root, be writable only by owner, and not writeable or and readable by others.'
  describe file('/etc/nginx/nginx.conf') do
    it { should be_owned_by 'root' }
    it { should be_grouped_into 'root' }
    it { should_not be_readable.by('others') }
    it { should_not be_writable.by('others') }
    it { should_not be_executable.by('others') }
  end
end
```

:::tip The `nginx_conf` resource docs
[`nginx_conf`](https://www.inspec.io/docs/reference/resources/nginx_conf/)
:::

Although these rules do what you expect, imagine your control file contains dozens or hundreds of tests. As the data you check for, such as the version or which modules are installed, evolve, it can become tedious to locate and update your tests. You may also find that you repeat the same data in across multiple control files.

One way to improve these tests is to use `inputs`. `Inputs` enable you to separate the `logic of your tests` from `the data your tests`. `Input files` are typically expressed as a `YAML` file.

`Profile Inputs` exist in your profile's main directory within the `inspec.yml` for global `inputs` to be used across all the controls in your profile.

Let's create the `inspec.yml` file for our profile:

```yaml
name: my_nginx
title: InSpec Profile
maintainer: The Authors
copyright: The Authors
copyright_email: you@example.com
license: Apache-2.0
summary: An InSpec Compliance Profile
version: 0.1.0
supports:
  platform: os

inputs:
  - name: nginx_version
    type: string
    value: 1.10.3
```

To access an input you will use the input keyword. You can use this anywhere in your control code.

For example:

```ruby
control 'nginx-version' do
  impact 1.0
  title 'NGINX version'
  desc 'The required version of NGINX should be installed.'
  describe nginx do
    its('version') { should cmp >= input('nginx_version') }
  end
end
```

For our next control we require specific modules

Example of adding an array object of servers:

```YAML
inputs:
  - name: servers
    type: array
    value:
      - server1
      - server2
      - server3
```

Similarly as the above example we can edit our `inspec.yml` file like this:

```YAML
name: my_nginx
title: InSpec Profile
maintainer: The Authors
copyright: The Authors
copyright_email: you@example.com
license: Apache-2.0
summary: An InSpec Compliance Profile
version: 0.1.0
supports:
  platform: os

inputs:
  - name: nginx_version
    type: string
    value: 1.10.3

  - name: nginx_modules
    type: array
    value:
      - http_ssl
      - stream_ssl
      - mail_ssl
```

Your control can be changed to look like this:

```ruby
control 'nginx-modules' do
  impact 1.0
  title 'NGINX modules'
  desc 'The required NGINX modules should be installed.'
  
  describe nginx do
    input('nginx_modules').each do |current_module|
      its('modules') { should include current_module }
    end
  end
end
```

### 5.2. Multiple Inputs Example

To change your inputs for platform specific cases you can setup multiple input files.

For example, a inspec.yml:

```YAML
inputs:
  - name: users
    type: array
    required: true
```

A YAML file named windows.yml

```YAML
users:
  - Administrator
  - Guest
  - Randy
```

A YAML file named linux.yml

```YAML
users:
  - root
  - shadow
  - rmadison
```

The control file:

```Ruby
control 'system-users' do
  impact 0.8
  desc 'Confirm the proper users are created on the system'

  describe users do
    its('usernames') { should eq input('users') }
  end
end
```

The following command runs the tests and applies the inputs specified:

```sh
inspec exec examples/profile-input --input-file examples/windows.yml
```
```sh
inspec exec examples/profile-input --input-file examples/linux.yml
```

### 5.3. Running the baseline straight from Github

In this module, we use NGINX for learning purposes. If you're interested in NGINX specifically, you may be interested in the [MITRE nginx-srg-baseline](https://github.com/mitre/nginx-srg-baseline) profile on GitHub.

To execute the GitHub profile on your target system, run this `inspec exec` command.

```sh 
inspec exec https://github.com/mitre/nginx-baseline -t docker://DOCKER_CONTAINER_ID
```
