docs/README.md, before:

---
home: true
actionText: Get Started with InSpec →
actionLink: course/
features:
  - title: Describe the InSpec framework and its capabilities
    details: Create components, connected components, modules - and their tests - right from the CLI
  - title: Describe the architecture of an InSpec profile
    details: Understand InSpec and it's architecture
  - title: Build an InSpec profile to transform security policy into automated security testing
    details: Understand how as well as hands on development of InSpec profiles
  - title: Run an InSpec profile against a component of an application stack
    details: Learn how to utilize the profiles we build to run against an application stack
  - title: View and analyze InSpec results
    details: Learn how to analyze outputs of InSpec profiles in more human readable format
  - title: Report results
    details: Create outputs of files that can be shared and reported out based on InSpec results

footer: Apache-2.0 | Copyright © 2019 - The MITRE Corporation
---

Commit message:

updating course material for rhel8 version of the course
Signed-off-by: HackerShark <melsharkawi@mitre.org>

docs/README.md, after:

---
home: true
actionText: Get Started with InSpec →
actionLink: course/
features:
  - title: Pre-requisites for the course
    details: For this basic class, knowledge of basic programming concepts, modern language conventions and some working experience with a modern language (e.g., ruby, python, go, etc) is useful. (Inspec is a Ruby Domain-specific language (DSL)). To become more familiar with Ruby, feel free to review the following Ruby primers:
    https://www.ruby-lang.org/en/documentation/quickstart/
    https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t_ispmWmdjY&vl=en
  - title: Describe the InSpec framework and its capabilities
    details: Create components, connected components, modules - and their tests - right from the CLI
  - title: Describe the architecture of an InSpec profile
    details: Understand InSpec and it's architecture
  - title: Build an InSpec profile to transform security policy into automated security testing
    details: Understand how as well as hands on development of InSpec profiles
  - title: Run an InSpec profile against a component of an application stack
    details: Learn how to utilize the profiles we build to run against an application stack
  - title: View and analyze InSpec results
    details: Learn how to analyze outputs of InSpec profiles in more human readable format
  - title: Report results
    details: Create outputs of files that can be shared and reported out based on InSpec results

footer: Apache-2.0 | Copyright © 2019 - The MITRE Corporation
---
